git --version

git init
git add .
git config color.ui true

git remote add origin <HTTP URL>

git push origin master



1.Create a directory devops and change to directory devops 
2.Create files 1.txt,2.txt,3.txt 
3.Create a git repository with git init 
4.Check the status with git status command 
5. Add 1.txt to git staging git add 1.txt 
6. set the email and user git config --global user.email "XXXX@gmail.com" git config --global user.name "XXXXX@gmail.com" 
7.Check the status , the 1.txt should be in staging 
8. add all the files to the staging git add . 
9. commit all the changes git commit -m "Changes are to be saved" 
10. create an account in http://GitHub.com and create a repository


11. Connect to the remote repository git remote add origin <<clone>> 
12. push all the files(1.txt,2.txt,3.txt) to Centeral repository git push origin master 
13. Check the files on GitHub 
14. modify 2.txt and commit the changes and push it to git hub and check in the github 
15.Another developer wants to work on this and want to download all files from Centeral repository 
for that create a directory call test and cloen the project into that git clone <<clone url>> 
16. check the files and folders in test directory it should have the remote directory 
17. change to remotedir folder and create a file 4.txt and push it to the remote repository ( no need to add remote origin) 
18. Create a directory called newTest and use git init and add some files and write git push command<<share the result>> 
19. change to dir devops and check the files (it should not have 4.txt) 
20. update the devops dir with Centeral repository git pull origin master after this check files( should have 4.txt) 
21. create 5.txt file in devops folder and push to GitHub and clone directory will not have the 5.txt until we use the pull command 
22. For Parallel development create a new branch feature1 git branch feature1 
23. list all the branches git branch (* prefix means current branch) 
24. Delete a branch git branch -D feature1 
25. create again branch feature1 and last commit of your master becomes the first commit for your feature1 

26. Switch to feature1 branch and create a file 6.txt and do the git commit and run ls command (you can see 6.txt)  
27. Switch to master branch (git checkout master) and run ls command , you will not see 6.txt because it is under feature1 branch  
28. Switch to feature1 branch and push the changes to remote repository and observer that on GitHub new branch get created  
29. check the history of all the commands of git git log (it shows the log of current branch)  
30. Switch to branch feature1 and create file 7.txt and modify file 5.txt and add to staging then go to master branch now you can see the  
files 7.txt and modified 5.txt in master branch to solve this problem use git stash command in feature1 and to revert back git stash pop  
31. create a file called 10.txt and commit the changes and then modify the file and donot commit it and to discard the new changes use git checkout -- 10.txt  
git checkout -- . will discard changes of all uncommited files  

32. modify 10.txt file again and commit the changes to revert back these changes use git revert <<commit id>> , git revert -n command to not commit changes  
33. reset to a particular commit git reset --hard <<commit id>>  
34. Find the difference between the different commit git diff <<commit1>> <<commit2>>  
35. to find the uncommited changes verus commited changes git diff HEAD .  

36.Create a directory called merge_test and intialize git into it, then create 1.txt and do commit after that create 2.txt and commit that as well.  
37. Write following commands git log , git log --graph, git log --graph --pretty=oneline  
38. create a branch test and checkout to test branch.  
39. Create a file 3.txt in test branch commit it.Create 4.txt and commit it  
40. checkout to branch master and create a file 5.txt and commit the changes.  
41. merge master branch with test branch using git merge test , check the git log  
42 create a directory rebase-merge and initialize git and create 1.txt and commit it.  
43 Create a branch test and create file 2.txt and commit in test branch.  
44.Create a file 3.txt in master branch and commit it  
45 checkout to test and now merge the data of master to test using git rebase master  
46. checkout to master and merge with test branch using git merge test.
